Here's what we need done in the winter 2018 term.

Looking backwards, since I'm on coop next term, rlcsv2 needs to be competition
ready by the end of this term (there's some leeway on documentation and _maybe_
software since that can be done without being physically in Waterloo, but all
hardware stuff must be done). Since I'm a big believer that the first version of
anything is riddled with issues (including the first version of version 2 of
rlcs), so I'd like enough time after having the first working test to iron out
those issues. Ideally, (and for the purposes of this timeline), that means we
have all the hardware finished before midterms. That may be a little early, but
I believe it's doable.

Here's everything that needs to happen before the hardware side is ready to go:
Client Side:
    - switch backplane cutout
    - part purchasing
    - assembly
Tower Side:
    - backplane cutout
    - new power board populated
    - Connectors purchased (or get samples from Winnie, but she's still dragging
      feet)
    - cable assemblies made for actuators (probably ordering cable from Misumi
      and assembling ourselves)
    - Assembly
Radio stuff:
    - 3d print enclosures for the 5v UART breakout things
    - range test
    - tower mounting solution
    - Client side mounting discussion or directional antenna

Assembly of both boxes can probably be done in a week. Let's let that week be
the week of February 5th. That puts backplane cutting happening late in the week
of the 29th, so the final versions of both backplanes need to be done by January
28th. Assuming that it'll take 3 revisions to get those right (digitally), we
should have a version 1 on the 14th so that we can start tweaking. By the 21st,
we should have the wiring harness in there so that we know exactly how much wire
we need to assemble. These are all vague numbers just tossed out semi
arbitrarily, but they should be conservative enough to have the final cuttable
design done by the 28th. Given that assembly happens on 5th, that means the digi
key order needs to be placed before end of business day on the 31st. Client side
parts are actually all here (we can reuse from last comp) with the exception of
the keyswitch, ignition switches, and LCD potentiometer, so those parts need to
be picked when we are figuring out cable lengths on the 14th, which should give
them enough time to be delivered from sparkfun or adafruit or whatever. The
radio enclosure needs to be done by midterms, but it's super simple, so I'm
gonna assume that if we have a version 1 ready by the 21st, that we would have a
print ready version by the assembly week.

Just using that ramble, we get the following schedule:
January 14th: first version of both backplane layouts are done
January 21st: second version of those backplanes are done, which include wire
room, strain relief, and all component selection done. Xbee 3d printed
enclosure should be at version 1. 
January 28th: Both backplanes are done, ready to cut.
January 29-Feb 2: Backplanes are cut, hole sizes are checked.
Feb 5-Feb 9: Backplanes and boxes are assembled. We do not necessarily need
connectors from Winnie yet, but it'd be really really nice to have them. The
radio enclosure should be printed in this time.
Feb 12-16: Midterms I think.
Feb 19-23: Project only test (not an integration test). Find issues. Make plans
from there to fix them. It's theoretically possible that we're competition ready
at this point, but I seriously doubt it.

After this point, I can't predict, since it depends on the issues we find in the
project only test. If it runs well, then we should be ready for a full
integration test any time after that.

The other thing that needs to be done is a radio mount on the tower and a range
test. The range test should wait until the weather is warmer, so that's also a
post midterm thing.

Software is not being timelined. There will be a functional version of the
software by the project only test.
